Writing:
Some students refer to study alone. Others prefer to study with a group of students. Which do you prefer? Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer. 

------------------------------------
There are different kinds of ways for students study. Some students prefer to study alone, they think they can get a higner score by this way. Others may like to study with a group of students, in this style, they can get involved in discussing, sharing with each other, etc. Each student has his own opinion on this topic. For my perspective, I recognize that study alone is better. Here are some my points:

1. Making plan according his/her own condition. Student who studies alone is able to make plan as he wishs. In the school, every student has specific condition for himself. For example, Lucy likes to study English, so she can get a perfect score on English. But her math is a bit bad, therefore, she can schedule more effects and time on studying math. Every student may know which subject he is good at, and which one he is weak. Even in the same course, student may know which chapter he has finished learning, and which one he has forgotten. Due to student know himself well than any other people, he can make plan according to conditions of himself.

2. Won't be disturbed. Studying alone won't be disturbed by other guys, when that student is studying, he will focus on the book on his desk or the knowleadge he is fetching. No other guys is arrounded he, so he won't be disturbed. He can devote 100% of his effort and focus on things he studys. We all know that knowledge is remermbered much better when we pay most of our attension to it. While, if someone is always disturbed by others, the effencify of learning surely is much more bad.

3. Taking advantage of thinking by himself. Students who study in a group always get some knowledge easily from other guys, consequently, they may stay in the level that only know it, rather than think deeper on it. Oppositely, study alone means that the only way for him to receive that knowledge is learning by himself. So, he would spent effort, time on it. Sometimes, he even encounters some difficulties. To understand and gain the knowledge, he must think more and deeper. Meantime, he can take advantage of thinking, that's really helpful to remember and understand knowledge.

4. Improving the ability of solving problems. No one can promise that he never meet any difficulty on studying. When student who is studying alone and have a difficulty problem, he can't ask help from others, he must solve that problem by himself. In the process of solving problems, he has gave himself much practise, tried plenty of ways to find solutions. His ability will improve greatly.

5. Enjoying the situation and the process. Student who study alone can choose the enviroment he likes he study. Someone likes to study at home, someone prfers to study in library, others may enjoy studying while listen to some soft music. A comfortable and perfect enviroment student likes can make himefeel pleasure and help a lot on studying.

For the above reasons, I think student can get more benifits from studying alone.
