Is group study more efficient than independent study?


Students have their own method to study for examinations. Some students prefer to study independently. However, there are several advantages in group study. Statistically, students who study with their peers earn higher marks than those who study by themselves. The atmosphere that is created by the students is helpful to their study. Moreover, students can help himself and also his peers by doing cooperative activities. Also, group study involves interactions which help to study and prevent boredom. It is far more effective than independent study because of the intense interaction between students. As a result, group study has successful advantages over those who study independently.

Firstly, the students in a group study create a slight tense atmosphere that is perfect to study in. Students that usually are indifferent to the study material have the tendency to procrastinate when they are studying by themselves. However, by gathering these students into a study group, students will observe their peers who are studying diligently. They will become motivated and starts to learn their materials in order to succeed in their upcoming tests. This results in a subtle atmosphere that is beneficial to the students in that group. They are motivated by their surrounding peers and focus on their learning, like the students in their vicinity. This is one of the reasons why group study is better than studying independently.

Secondly, while studying is very important to obtain good grades, students also need to relax during their learning. To study effectively, a student studies for twenty minutes. After that, a student needs ten minutes for rest. Students need a short amount of time to absorb the materials that they just learned. During the resting period, they can jog, play games or do some activities that do not require a great deal of vitality. While it is true that a person can do some relaxing activities such as playing basketball with himself, it is better to play it with a group of people. The fun that is created by a group of people is far more joyful than the fun created by only a person. The enjoyment is shared among the people. It is a win-win situation. Indirectly, group study is more advantageous than independent study.

Thirdly, group study is better than independent study is because of the numerous helpful interactions in group study. In a group study, students ask each other questions to either test them or to clear up their problems. Usually, the person being asked will teach and solve their problems. Teaching to other people successfully proves that the student fully comprehend the material. If a person studies by himself, he will not have the opportunity to test his understanding of the material by teaching to other people. This is one of the prominent advantages over independent study. In addition, students have the opportunity to share their ideas on certain concepts and create a discussion about it which will end with a definite resolution. This interactive way to learn the material is far better than a dull independent study, which has no one to discuss with. Also, a common way to study as a group is to create a mock test of their material that they are learning. This effective approach can fully test student¡¯s knowledge about their studies. Not only do they have to answer the questions, they have to make up questions with answers to them. In contrast, a student who studies independently can neither test other students nor tested by other students. Despite the fact that he thinks he knows everything about his materials, he can not double-check to make sure that he understands all the materials that he has to know. Therefore, group study has prominent advantages over independent study.

In retrospect, students will usually form group study because of the benefits from it. One of the benefits is the forceful atmosphere that surrounds the students. Also, the dual benefit from doing group activities is better than having only one benefit from doing activities by oneself. In addition, the beneficial interactions in a group study results in better understanding of their study material. All in all, students who study independently might want to change their studying habits in order to achieve success in the future.

----------
One thing that all students have in common is that they need to study in order to pass their courses. However, they have different styles of doing so. Some students prefer to study alone while others prefer to study in a group. If given the choice, I would recommend other students to study in groups based on my experience. This is because students can save time by studying together, and keep focusing on what they need to do.

The first advantage to studying in a group is that students are able to save time. When students study alone, they must go through the long process of gathering all the information that they need in order to study successfully. However, when a group of students are studying together, they can be responsible for supplying certain segments of the material that the group requires in common. I remember studying in a group for a world history course. Gathering all of the material for the final exam is a huge job and takes days. However, as a group we each took a particular period of time to study and supplied the material to the other members of the group. This saved us a lot of time needed to actually go over and remember the material. Working together, we were all able to benefit.

Besides, studying in a group allows students to continue concentrating on their studies. Keeping your mind on what you are studying is another challenge when studying alone. On the other hand, when you are studying with other students keep each other concentrating on what needs to be done. When I study alone, especially a subject I disliked, I could not concentrate on my study. Because my mind wandered easily, I ended up watching TV or calling my friends on the phone. However, you will not be asked to join in the group. Studying in a group requires and develops discipline which is always beneficial for functioning in a school or work environment.

Typically, students do not enjoy studying. However, students can study successfully if they do it in a group. Studying in a group is more efficient because it helps saves time in the gathering of materials, and it also keeps you focusing on the task at hand. I strongly recommend this method for success in academic endeavors.

----------
Students have different kinds of working methods. Some students prefer to study individually. Others prefer to study with a group of students. As far as I am concerned, I believe that studying with a group of students are better than studying individually. The reasons why I believe so are; group of students can do perfect works together thanks to many different ideas. Additionally, studying together also brings many advantage to a person for future life.

As a proverb says, ``Many hands make light work``. That means, being together for a homework or job brings power. If you work with a group of students, you can produce many different ideas, and you can choose the prefect one. In that case, you start to improve with other brains contributions to your brain. You can enhance your border. Today, many psychologists suggest that group studying is the best way to deal with the problems. For instance, when I was university, I finished a project that was related to design a lime factory with all engineering details, and all the group members finished hisher own duty. As a result, a big project completed with twelve people. If you want to save time and get high success from your works, group study is the key for you.

As is all known to us, studying together is a necessity to be successful in the business life, and many engineers or other workers have been in difficulty when they start to their job after university. Hence, if you learn to study with group, you can easily accommodate to the business life. Today, many professional jobs have managed to be successful with many people works. Then, participating to the groups in school or university will bring you lots of experiences.

Taking into accounts all the factors, it is not wrong to say that studying with a group of students is a significant opportunity for a student in order to experience its benefits. Some people may think differently. They may even be right. From my point of view, because of the reasons I have mentioned above, as I always do, I certainly prefer to study with a group of students.

