°ÁÂýÓëÆ«¼û Pride and Prejudice 1 

  

CHAPTER ONE 

  

A Young Man of Fortune 

It is well known throughout the world that a single man wants to marry a wife, especially if he is rich and successful. 


       Certainly, a mother of five daughters who are old enough to marry also thinks a lot about marriage. When she hears that a wealthy man has moved into her neighborhood, she will surely think of him as a future husband for one of her daughters. This was the view of Mrs. Bennet of Longbourn House, which is near Meryton in Hertfordshire. Mrs. Bennet had heard the news in February 1810 that a single, wealthy man was moving near them. Excited by the opportunity, she decided to tell her husband. 


      "My dear Mr. Bennet," she said to her husband, "do you know that someone is finally renting Netherfield Park?"
       Mr. Bennet was silent and did not answer her.
      "Don't you want to know who is there?" cried his wife, impatiently.
      "Well, I'm sure you want to tell me."
      "Well," Mrs. Bennet said excitedly, "Netherfield is being rented by Mr. Bingley. He is a young, wealthy man from the north. "
      "You don't say?" Mr. Bennet replied. "Is he married or single?"
      "Oh, single, my dear!" cried Mrs. Bennet excitedly. "What a good fortune for our daughters!"
      "What do you mean by that? What does this have to do with their fortune?"
      "Oh, don't be so difficult, my dear Mr. Bennet!" replied his wife. "I'm just thinking that perhaps Mr. Bingley might marry one of our daughters."
      "Is this why he has rented the house?" her husband asked, jokingly. 


     "What nonsense! Still, it's likely that if he meets one of our girls, he'll fall in love. So, you must go and pay him a visit soon. It's the only respectable way for an introduction."
     Mr. Bennet stood up and looked at his wife. "I do not want to do that, and you cannot make me, I promise you."
     "But what about the future of your daughters?" cried his wife, shocked.
      "I don't see why I must visit him." said Mr. Bennet. 


      "How difficult you are!" she cried. "I cannot take the girls to visit him unless you have already met him. It's the only correct way. "
      "That's not true at all," said Mr. Bennet calmly. "I will write this young man a letter. I will tell him he has my permission to marry whichever of our daughters he chooses. And I'll make sure that I say something very good about my little Lizzy."
      "You will not do such a thing!" cried his wife angrily. "Anyway, Elizabeth is no better than our other daughters."
      "Our daughters," replied Mr. Bennet, "haven't much in way of praise or recommendation. They don't know very much and are often silly, like other girls. But Lizzy is more clever and smarter than her sisters." 


      "Mr. Bermet, how you make me worry! Sometimes I feel you even enjoy it! You don't care about my poor nerves. "
      Mr. Bennet walked over to the door of his library. "You are wrong, my dear," he said.  "I do have feelings for your nerves. After all, they are like old friends. I have lived with them for twenty years."
     "Oh!" said Mrs. Bennet. She was beginning to cry. "How you enjoy making me worry!"
     "You will have many other chances to see rich young men move into our neighborhood, my dear. So I hope you can forget this."
      "You have no thought for your daughters. Five of them -- five! And Jane in her twenty-third year! Are they all to be old maids and never get married?"
      "I'm sure you won't let this happen," he said, and the library door closed behind him. 
